Okay, so now let's talk
about our lambda function configuration and performance,
and the first one I want to address is the RAM.
So currently we've been using 128 megabytes of RAM,
but we can scale up to 10 gigabytes of RAM
in one megabytes increments.
The idea is that the more RAM
or memory you add into your lambda function,
the more vCPU credits you get.
So you cannot set the number of vCPUs directly.
You have to increase the RAM to implicitly get more vCPU.
So when you reach 1,792 megabytes of RAM,
your function will have the equivalent of one full vCPU.
Afterwards, you get more than one vCPU,
and so you need to use multi-threading
to benefit from the added vCPU.
So if your application is CPU bound,
that means that it has a lot of computations,
and you want to improve the performance of your application,
that means to decrease the amount
of time your function will run for,
then you need to increase your application,
your lambda function RAM.
This is a very common exam question as well.
Then let's talk about a timeout.
So your lambda function
by default has a timeout of three seconds.
That means that if your lambda function runs
for more than three seconds,
it will error out with a timeout,
but you can set the timeout
up to a maximum of 900 seconds, which is 15 minutes.
So any interval of an execution
between 0 seconds and 15 minutes
is a good use case for lambda.
Anything above 15 minutes is not a good use case for lambda
and is something maybe that's going to be better
for Fargate, ECS, or EC2.
This is, again, something that the exam may test you on.
Next we'll talk about the performance.
So the lambda has an execution context.
It's a temporary runtime environment
that initializes any external dependencies
of your lambda code.
So you would use that context
to establish database connections,
to create your HTTP clients, or your SDK clients.
The cool thing about the execution context
is that it's maintained for some time
in anticipation of another lambda function invocation.
That means that if you invoke lambda function multiple times
in a row, then that invocation context can be reused
and reuse all these existing database connections,
GP clients and so on, and that's very helpful
because it can speed up and improve the performance
of your lambda function.
I will show you some pseudocode in a second.
Now the execution context does include the /tmp directory
that I'll be talking about in this lecture as well,
which is a space where you can write files
and they will be available across executions.
So I want to show you some code that leverages
that execution context.
So this code is bad. Why?
So we have a function called get_user_handler,
which is what lambda will be invoking.
And if you read about this code,
we get the DB_URL called os.getenv,
so we get an environment variable, and this is great.
But then the next line db_client = database.connect DB_URL.
And so while this seems correct because to get a user,
we first need to connect to the database,
every time our lambda function will be run,
this connect of the database will have to run.
So anytime someone invokes our lambda function,
it first has to connect to the database
and then get the user.
That is quite inefficient
because our lambda function may be invoked multiple times.
Instead, what AWS wants you to do, and the best practice,
is to initialize the database connection outside
of your handler, why?
Well, because it will just be initialized once,
and then it can be reused across function calls,
and it will greatly improve your function performance.
So this kind of use case is, again,
well, something that can come up at the exam,
and it will show you some pseudocode
and try to make you understand
what is good and what is bad based
on where the database connection clients
or your HTTP clients or SDK clients are opened.
Best practices, anything that takes a lot of time
to initialize, put it out of your function handler
and reuse it across executions.
Okay, lastly, what if you need to write some temporary files
and reuse them?
You can use the /tmp space.
So this is, for example,
if you need to download a big file to work
or if you need disk space to perform operations,
in this case, store all these files in a /tmp,
which means temp or temporary.
The idea is that you get 10 gigabytes of disk space
you can use for your lambda functions,
and this directory contains and remains
for the execution time of your lambda function.
So even if your lambda function stops
and then it gets reinvoked,
it is possible for you to refind the exact same files
in the /tmp space and to win a lot of time.
So this is the exact same idea with the execution context.
Here we can write very heavy files,
up to half a gigabyte, into the /tmp space.
So if you need a permanent persistence of your objects,
so non-temporary, then you need to store it in a space
that you know will be persisted across calls,
and so that space will be Amazon S3, for example.
And if you wanted to encrypt content on the /tmp space,
there is no setting to do so on lambda.
What you must do is that you must use the KMS feature
to generate data keys and actually encrypt the data
on your temp space with these data keys.
So we have seen all the ways we can improve the performance
of our lambda functions.
Now let's go into the console to play with those.